[Music]
is it possible to stop an asteroid space
has always been a source of fear and
fascination for humankind the secrets it
hides and its celestial objects that
look like shooting stars mesmerize and
intrigue people however even modern
technology can't save us from occasional
confusion asteroids meteoroids comets
what's the difference between the space
phenomena and which of them can be the
most threatening to our planet will tell
you a bit later about the method
scientists invented to protect earth if
a massive celestial object decides to
pay us a visit but first of all let's
figure out the differences between the
main space travelers asteroids
meteoroids
and comets now comets our solar system
bodies that consists mostly of ice when
they approach the Sun comets leave a
trail of ice rock particles and dust
they typically appear in the outer solar
system
asteroids are sometimes classified as
minor planets this means that their size
is pretty impressive in the orbit the
Sun what is more some of them even have
moons of their own as for meteoroids
they are much smaller than asteroids and
can be as tiny as sand particles they
are in fact debris drifting in space in
orbit around different celestial bodies
their speed is higher than that of
asteroids and they can consist of
various materials from ice to iron to
avoid further confusion we should also
distinguish between meteoroids meteors
and meteorites once again meteoroids
orbit the Sun however if they break
through the atmosphere of our planet
they begin to burn that's why they start
looking like shooting stars at this
moment they changed their name to
meteors only after they survive this
dissent and hit the surface of the
planet are they called meteorites a
study in 1985 suggested that a human
being would be hit by a meteorite every
180 years another interesting thing
connected to meteors is meteor showers
during which a lot of meteors can be
seen in the sky in a short period of
time the most famous meteor shower
happened in 1833 when more than 10,000
meteors were seen every hour that means
that about 15 meteors were noticed every
second this meteor shower was named the
Leonid meteor shower
meteorites make the planet 110,000 tons
heavier every year according to the
estimations of scientists the planetary
science institute states that more than
500 meteorites reached the surface of
the planet yearly but only 10 or fewer
are ever recovered the main reason is
that these space objects mostly fall
into the oceans and seas the largest
meteorite known to people is the Hoba
meteorite situated in nambia africa it
was first spotted by a local farmer in
1920 this huge object most likely
survived thanks to its content mostly
iron and 16% nickel
it measures 9 feet by 9 feet by 3 feet
as for its weight it's a whopping 66
tons in any case however big and fast
meteorites are they can't cause the same
damage that earth can experience if an
asteroid were to hit and there is
evidence of what happens when a stray
asteroid crashes into the planet the
asteroid belt between Jupiter and Mars
is home to many asteroids however from
time to time they leave their orbit and
move closer to earth luckily we haven't
had any huge asteroids hit Earth in the
past several thousand years but it has
happened the most famous crater left
after the impact of an asteroid is
probably the Arizona meteor crater which
appeared more than 50 thousand years ago
this impact crater is about one mile in
diameter
and has a depth of 560 feet that's not
the only impact crater we know about
there are approximately 180 documented
sites some of them are enormous for
example Rita Fort crater in South Africa
has a radius of 118 miles
it's the largest known impact site on
our planet most people believe that an
asteroid that fell near the coast of the
Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico caused the
most disastrous impact in the history of
Earth the asteroid raised such a huge
cloud of dust that had completely
changed the climate of the planet
according to scientists this celestial
object was to blame for the extinction
of dinosaurs about 65 million years ago
however our planet had a much more
serious encounter 3 billion years ago an
asteroid that fell to earth was an even
bigger one that killed the dinosaurs in
addition its speed was extraordinarily
fast more than 12 miles per second
scientists think that this asteroid fell
somewhere in South Africa and this led
to changes in the tectonic structure of
the planet nowadays with the development
of modern technologies asteroids don't
present such a terrible threat every
year according to NASA specialists an
asteroid as big as a car enters Earth's
atmosphere turns into a spectacular
fireball and disintegrates before it has
a chance to reach the surface of the
planet on the other hand a celestial
object as large as a football field hits
earth every five thousand years causing
serious damage once every several
million years our planet collides with a
space body so large that it causes a
global planetary catastrophe so as you
can see such an encounter can turn our
peaceful life into a disaster movie
therefore a question arises is it
possible to stop an asteroid that
threatens life on earth the answer is
yes in fact there are three solutions
one armed asteroid redirect mission NASA
is currently working on creating the
first robotic mission this mission will
be connected with the potential threat
that asteroids present to our planet the
first task of the robotic mission will
be to approach a large asteroid located
close to Earth collect a multi-ton rock
from its surface and redirect the
asteroid to a stable orbit around the
moon this will serve a double purpose
first of all specialists will gain
experience in removing a potential
threat to our planet secondly astronauts
will return with a sample of an asteroid
in the 2020s number two dart double
asteroid redirection test the dart
mission will be the first demonstration
to see if people can use the kinetic
impact technique to make an asteroid
change its course in space scientists
have already chosen the target it will
be the binary asteroid six five eight
zero 3d Deimos this space body will be
spotted close to Earth in October 2022
passing just six hundred twenty thousand
miles away the dart mission will impact
the asteroid secondary body crashing
into it at a speed of four miles per
second if everything goes as planned
this collision will change the course of
the moonlit around the primary body by a
fraction of 1% now such a small number
may seem like nothing
but it can make a huge difference when
moving the course of an asteroid
hundreds of thousands of miles away from
our planet number 3d star mission
directed-energy system for targeting of
asteroids and exploration there's the
our sounds like something from science
fiction
such a system could potentially destroy
asteroids comets and other dangerous
near-earth space bodies that pose a high
risk of impact if d-star were created it
would consist of satellites that would
gather solar energy and convert it into
an array of such powerful lasers that
they would be able to disintegrate an
asteroid at the moment this system is
still theoretical however some
scientists state that the technology to
make the idea of the super laser come
true already exists people just need to
construct a D star model big enough
perhaps as big as six miles across so
have you already pictured a laser blast
scattering asteroids hmm sorry to
disappoint you but D star with a
diameter of 328 feet would just slowly
push asteroids and comets out of their
orbits and away from Earth as for a
large scale D star system say six miles
in diameter it could potentially destroy
an asteroid with a diameter of 1,700
feet but this process would take
approximately one year in any case
whatever solution scientists choose
earth won't be helpless waiting for a
huge asteroid to crash into its surface
so do you believe in the possibility of
a celestial body coming into contact
with our planet and causing a natural
disaster tell us in the comments below
remember to like the video and don't
forget to subscribe to our Channel this
way you'll always stay on the bright
side of life